
## Java Rest Assured API Automated tests
### This is a cucumber framework using feature files and step definitions for automating tests to leverage BDD.Java Rest Assured library has been used to call service Endpoints and tests are asserted using Junit Assertion. It includes utilities to have common functions that would get used across various services and config to set up Endpoint request.This also generates cucumber html report.

Java Rest assured documentation could be found [here](https://rest-assured.io/)

#
## Setup Steps

### Install Java and Maven

This project is tested on Java 1.8.Once the installation is done - open command prompt on Windows and type below command to verify if Java and Maven installation were successful.

			java -version
			mvn -v
			
Above commands should print out the version of java and maven bein installed

### Clone the repository
### Navigate to project root folder,right click on it,Select maven and then update the project.

#
## Run Commands
There are two ways to run the test
1.Run the test as cucumber feature file.
- Right click on a feature file,select Run As and choose Cucumber Feature

2.Run the test as Junit test from Test Runner class.
- Right click within Test Runner class,Select Run As and choose JUnit test.
    
#
## Reporters
We are generating HTML Test report with the help of extent-reports that is more organized and detailed than normal cucumber html report. This report is generated when the tests are run as JUnit tests.The reports could be found at:.reports\report.html

## Config.json
This file can be used to specify service request related configs like endpoint url,headers,payload and other applicable specification.

## ApiTestLogfile
This ApiTestLogFile within logs folder carries logs related to our test codes which would assist in further debugging incase of any errors.

#
## Framework Overview
Tests are written in the cucumber framework using the Gherkin syntax.More about Gherkin & Cucumber could be found [here](https://cucumber.io/docs/gherkin/reference/)
- Tests *.feature files are placed in ./src/test/resources/Features
- Step Definition for feature files are placed under ./src/test/java/stepDefinition
- Common Resusable steps are added under ./src/test/java/common
- Report.xml is used to generate report. It states the theme of report,title etc.
- log4j2 is a logging api that gives ability to categorize logs at different levels like Trace,Debug,Info,Warn,Error,Fatal.

## List of Dependencies and their usage is mentioned in the table below
|Dependency|Version|Usage  |
|--|--|--|
|rest-assured|5.3.0|Java DSL for easy testing of REST services|
| json-simple |1.1.1  |simple Java toolkit for JSON|
| cucumber-extentsreport |3.0.2  |A custom cucumber html report generated by ExtentsReport|
| extentreports|3.1.2  |ExtentReports library|
| log4j-api and log4j-core |2.19.0  |logging API that logs the log messages|
| junit |4.13.2 |unit testing framework to write and run repeatable automated tests on Java.|
|cucumber-core|7.12.0|Cucumber JVM: core|
|cucumber-java|1.26.0|Cucumber JVM: Java|
|testNG|7.1.0|Testing framework|
|gherkin|2.12.2|Gherkin parser|
